idea is people will respect architectcure and not syntax.

react.
1. how do you setup events and upate sectionsof the page. ( react has an opinion)
2. how do you contact server, here react tells I dont know also. wehave
to use some library which is not react based to contact the server .. most common
library used is axios or fetch .. syntax in so many flavours concept same.
3. how do state management
4. how to one go from one place to another .. routing.

stick with first thing is read this 

advantages we will come it to later on.. but first step what did we do with jquery
1. we setup events and changed sections of the page.
2. same thing we will focus on in react.

3. we contacted server
3.we contact by server by some library.

the most common way to build react is by using a development environment
on nodejs.

build react code by using some libraries on nodejs
and finally during deployment the Boss browser does not care whether
it is react, angular or jquery .. becuase boss likes finally html, css and javascript.

what is first step in building web prsentation.
1. think which part will change, which part will not change.
2. we give ids for the parts which change.
3. then we access the html via javascript and make the changes.


div tag is used to logically section the page into regions.
what do we with div tag nothing until you start using css properties.

<p id="root"></p>

you write something components...
set of html + dynamic thing

you can do two things in react.

1. create some elements.  -- can you recognize which part does not change
which part changes..
2. tell where it needs to be put in the html.


never understand the code frm function defintiion always go from function calling.
except for fate functions.. 

when we define the function, think who is going to call it.
when we call the function, always open documenttion and read the function
what it does..

any terminology comes X.
hey look I knnow 3 tier architecture , you tell me in which layer it is used.

X=babel.
X is used in presentation layer.
ok in what presentation. web or non web.
web
in web I know only http, js and css, explain babel here.. if he tells I cant explain
then tell I dotn want to learn babel.

Babel takes javscript which is present day javascript and converts into 
a version which the browser understands..

most important skill for the project.
i will not know so many things, when I dont know either syntax or concept
are we willing to write a small program to clarify our concept or syntax.

let it be x, y, z style of react.
1. are we creating content
2.where are we using it.

dont get over enthusiastic about codng, relax focus on react terminologies
first and see can you give an example Icant code ok fine. that is ok.

take a break till 4.00PM and we will join back.. dont switch off


we are mixing html and javascript in this process we have to identify parts
which change, parts which dont change.





when are building react. what we do is

1. section the page into components.
each part with its static content and dynamic content.
each component.
dynamic part is called as state.
when we tell things change, it means we have chanted the state.

concept called as immutability what does it mean.
things that cannot be changed.

what are things we should have learnt in react as of now.
1. too many opinions, you should not care for anything rather focus
on "how to setup events change sections of the page."

2.in entire  react code.
identify sections which are creating content  ( static and dynamic)
create h1 tag and its content is xyz.
identify sections which tell where content should go.
where should h1 tag go.


3. from a project point of view. we tell identify the page into components.
each component will have its own dynamic part and static part.
dynamic part of the component needs to go into something called "state".

4. what i should do.. continue reading dont code..I have time
then figure how to do file uploads using nodejs.

5. what is most important at the end of the day , react is just a web based presntation
that means the boss the browser is not going to care whether it is react or jquery
or ... he tells I like html, javascript and css that's all other things are "developers"
convenience.
to talk between two component it is props
to keep  keep track of a dynamic thing in same component it is called as state.

architecture mvc.

expand mvc = Model View Controller.
what is mvc?
mvc is an architecture used in presenttion  so that when model changes
view need not change, or view changes, model need not change
this is done by using a controller.


photoframe and photo.
model = photo
photoframe  =view
screw = controller.

computer science example.
model == data.
view = excel, pdf, html

in web pages.

1 . html tags are nothing but view.
2. dynamci thing ... model.
3. events which we setup are controller.


Session.
what do you mean by session.?
session word in http means.

1. it is particular to a user.
2. there has to be multiple request.
3. some information has to be avaialble over this multiple requests.
if you have the need doing 3 keeping 1 and 2 in mind. then we say
we need a session.

login -- request .. inbox page -- response.
compose mail -->new request  -- but then it must remember who logged in.
ok during second request , we need to remember the information got
during first request ie login. hence we need a session.

we are doing login
we are doing logout
after login, let us person has to add two numbers.
during login we give userid and password(information) we got the postlogin page.
in postlogin page, there is an option to add two numbers, when wwe click submit
in the postlogin page, a new request starts.(second request) we have to remember
the person who logged in.. ok that means in this scenario we need to put
userd in a session.


what is meaning of logout
we did some X after logging in. we should not able to do X after logging off.
during logoff we remove teh information from the session.


when it comes to session, all of you must remember..it is always a map
where. in any web technology..
you put both key and value
while removing you remove both key and value, after specifying the key.

we have a tag in html called A href , anchor tag.
what does anchor tag do it helps in navaigation from page to page..

<A href="where to go"> what to show </A>

textbox  [	2	]
button

it is an odd number then we must go  page x.html
if is even number then we must go page y.html


for people it is boring
whether it is react or jquery or angular .. or dont assume about event
handling check..

routing  -- context, which page to show.

css ...
:-- pseudo class.

what is a pseudo class.
1. system knows what is it and when to apply
we only tell what kind of decoration we want to do.
how to recognize teh syntax :

CSS box model.
it it important super important in real life.. for people who use css
for us also important..

bootstrap is primarily a css library.



in css

# it means id 
. it means class
X it means element
: it means pseudoclass.
box model.

if we know css and ul. li tags we can build menus.

fianlly in the project dont build your own html from teh beginning
as far stying goes pick up ready made templates.

javascript part any how you ahve to write..


post mode of request

css box model.


f1(3);


1.
http modes of request.
get  -- querying
post --adding 
put  --updating
delete --removing.

according to http standard.. get mode of request does not need any body..
body of request, comes only if mode of request is post or put. and never get.
get is expected to carry information as part of its header..

get is not secure
post is secure
all this is non sense..

/two.html?v1=x&v2=y so people tell it is not secure..

two.html
during post, information is not revelated why.. infomration
goes as part of the body.. hence it is not revealed

nothing is secure..
why it is http..


what is difference between get and post, some people can do phd but
we are programmers so dont talk complicated things ..


talk like this.
1. get mode of request, information is revelated in the address bar
becuase information goes as part of the http header and get does
not have a body.

by convention we use get mode of request for querying

2. in post mode of request, information is not revelaed
as part of header, becuase information goes as part of the body.

by convention we use post mode of request for adding information.


https://www.cleartrip.com/flights/results?adults=6&childs=0&infants=0&class=Economy&depart_date=22/06/2022&from=DEL&to=JAI&intl=n&origin=DEL%20-%20New%20Delhi,%20IN&destination=JAI%20-%20Jaipur,%20IN&sd=1655898661966&rnd_one=O


https://www.redbus.in/bus-tickets/mumbai-to-goa?fromCityName=Mumbai&fromCityId=462&toCityName=Goa&toCityId=210&onward=24-Jun-2022&srcCountry=IND&destCountry=IND&opId=0&busType=Any

how to send information in postmode..

when we dont mention any mode what is defaut mode of request.. get mode of request.


quick summary

1. dont worry about the code. just know the terminology first..
coding can come in different styles
1. using nodejs
2. without using nodejs
concept does not change whether we do it by 1 or 2.
what is concept.
1. creating content ( dynamic  -- state, static )
2. where is the content used.
3. session-- for a particular user, multiple requests an dsome information
needs to survive over multiple requests.
4. routing ... moving from one place to another.. tag that should come to your mind
should hyperlink ahref.
5. in css, box properties.. what is margin, what is padding, what is border...
6. in http protocol, get and post.. ok dont talk in terms of security, just talk 
in terms of its features
get carries information as apart of its header hence information is revealed.
post carries information as part of its body, henc einformation isn ot revealed.



